ALPS – The AryaLinux Packaging System

This article enlists the features of alps and what it can do

ALPS is a simple python script that resolves dependencies and installs packages that are specified in the build scripts. Apart from dependency resolution and 
package installation, alps also supports few other things. In order to see what all options alps can take run the following from the terminal:

alps help

alps commands

alps install [space separated package list...]

This command downloads tarballs for the packages specified and builds/installs them as per the instructions in the build-script.

alps updatescripts

Updates the scripts for the present release. When bugs are found in scripts, we fix them and upload them. This command downloads the most recent scripts for the 
current release.

alps selfupdate

As and when new features are added to alps or broken things are fixed we upload newer versions of alps online. This command downloads and updates alps to the 
latest version

alps clean

alps downloads source tarballs to /var/cache/alps/sources. Once the build is completed, these tarballs are not deleted. If for saving space, you want to delete 
these tarballs, this command would come handy.

alps src <url>

Sometimes the download URLs of tarballs in scripts are broken. In such a case you can search for the tarball online and download it from an alternate location. 
This command takes the URL of the alternate location and downloads the tarball from there into /var/cache/alps/source. Once the download is complete, you can 
re-run the install for the package that were trying to install. Since alps would find it in /var/cache/alps/source already, it would not try downloading the 
file again and would continue with the installation.

This might also come in handy when some tarball gets partially downloaded and script would fail due to not being able to untar the archive. In such a case, you 
can download the tarball from an alternate source or retry the download from the same source using this command
Tips and Troubleshooting

    Sometimes alps might fail to resolve dependencies correctly and individual package installation fails. In that case all you have to do is re-issue the alps 
install command with the dependency package name first followed by that package name that failed due to dependency
    If you want to cancel the build process in the middle for any reason, just press Ctrl+C and the process would be terminated.
    Keep on periodically running alps selfupdate and alps updatescripts to keep alps and the build scripts up-to-date


